---
title: "Getting Started"
description:
  "Welcome to Alpaca! We are going to walk through a quick starter project to
  get familiar with the core functions of Alpaca."
---

In this tutorial, we will cover the Imagine, Outpaint, Inpaint, and Transfer functions, as well as a few key Photoshop tips to help everything work smoothly.

### Opening up a new project file

First, we'll want to create a new project file inside Photoshop. We can create a
custom file preset that we'll be able to re-use later in future projects —
1024x1024 px is a good size.

![New project](/images/getting-started-1.png)

### Settings

Now that we're inside Photoshop, we can choose some project settings. Click on
the gear icon on the Alpaca window to open up the **Settings** panel. Here, we
can select some **modifiers**, which describe the style we are trying to
achieve. We can assign **weights** to our modifiers (must be integers) that tell
Alpaca how much we care about each modifier.

<video className="w-full h-96" controls>
  <source
    src="https://res.cloudinary.com/mintlify/video/upload/v1667547863/Customers/AlpacaML/getting-started-video-1_h38uge.mp4"
    type="video/mp4"
  />
</video>

<div className="flex justify-center">
  <img
    height="400"
    width="400"
    src="/images/getting-started-2.png"
    alt="Opening new project file"
  />
</div>

### Generating an image

Now that we're ready, let's generate our first image. We can do this using the
**Imagine** function. Here, we can input a text prompt to Alpaca (e.g. “the
hanging gardens of babylon seen through a cave opening”). You can generate
between 1-5 images per text prompt. It's usually better to generate many images,
since the style and quality can vary for each generation.

<video className="w-full h-96" controls>
  <source
    src="https://res.cloudinary.com/mintlify/video/upload/v1667547867/Customers/AlpacaML/getting-started-video-2_p5fhqg.mp4"
    type="video/mp4"
  />
</video>

<div className="flex justify-center">
  <img
    height="400"
    width="400"
    src="/images/getting-started-3.png"
    alt="Generating"
  />
</div>

### Outpainting an image

We can extend an existing image using using the **Outpaint** function. Let's say
that we liked the look of the turquoise river seen at the bottom of our example
image above — we can extend this river into the cave at the foreground of the
image using outpainting. We'll want to use the **Marquee** tool to identify the
empty space that we want to outpaint. We can think of the parts of the existing
image we include in the **Marquee** square as “extra information” that Alpaca
will use to extend the image. Additionally, we'll want to prompt Alpaca by
describing the what we would like to see in the outpainted section, e.g. “a pale
turquoise river leading into a cave”.

<Warning>
  The **Marquee** tool must be of size 1024x1024 pixels for Fill to work. We
  recommend setting this to be the fixed size of the tool. See [Documentation]
  (/documentation/photoshop-setup) for more information on how to do that.
</Warning>

<Warning>

Do make sure that you have the correct **layer** selected when you Fill. If you
are new to Photoshop, an easy way to make sure you have the correct layer
selected is to simply **merge all layers** before outpainting or inpainting.

You can do this by hitting `Command+ shift + e`

</Warning>

<video className="w-full h-96" controls>
  <source
    src="https://res.cloudinary.com/mintlify/video/upload/v1667547878/Customers/AlpacaML/getting-started-video-3_bpoxsm.mp4"
    type="video/mp4"
  />
</video>

<div className="flex justify-center">
  <img
    height="400"
    width="400"
    src="/images/getting-started-4.png"
    alt="Outpainting"
  />
</div>

### Filling an image

We can use Photoshop's Erase tool to remove an existing object or to indicate
where we would like to draw in a one, then use the Fill function to fill in the
empty space however we would like. In this example, let's erase one of the rocks
from the river we just created and Fill in some water where the rock used to be
using the prompt “turquoise water reflecting a cave ceiling”.

<Warning>
  The **Marquee** tool must be of size 1024x1024 pixels for Fill to work. We
  recommend setting this to be the fixed size of the tool. See [Documentation]
  (/documentation.overview) for more information on how to do that.
</Warning>

<Warning>

Do make sure that you have the correct **layer** selected when you Fill. If you
are new to Photoshop, an easy way to make sure you have the correct layer
selected is to simply **merge all layers** before outpainting or inpainting.

You can do this by hitting `Command+ shift + e`

</Warning>

<video className="w-full h-96" controls>
  <source
    src="https://res.cloudinary.com/mintlify/video/upload/v1667547869/Customers/AlpacaML/getting-started-video-4_r0d8fd.mp4"
    type="video/mp4"
  />
</video>

<div className="flex justify-center">
  <img
    height="400"
    width="400"
    src="/images/getting-started-5.png"
    alt="Filling"
  />
</div>

### Transforming objects using Transfer

Finally, we can use the **Marquee** tool again to select parts of the image that
we would like to transform. In our example, let's say that we want to slightly
change the style of the rock near the entrance of the cave. We can free-form
select the rock using the **Marquee** tool (no need to have a 1024x1024 pixel
square here) and prompt Alpaca to **Transfer** using the prompt “a rock in
water”. Here, because we simply wanted a variation on the existing object, we
could use an equally simple prompt. There are lots of different ways to use the
**Transfer** function — for example, we could have chosen _“a red rock”_, or _“a
frog sitting on top of a rock”_. Other fun ways to use the **Transfer** function
are to transform external images or simple drawings into the style of our
project (check in with us on Discord to learn more!).

The **Transfer** function will generate a new layer in the shape of whatever we
have selected using the **Marquee** tool. To blend things nicely, we can erase
around the object using the **Erase** tool to reveal the previous layer and then
merge all layers together when we're happy with the result.

<video className="w-full h-96" controls>
  <source
    src="https://res.cloudinary.com/mintlify/video/upload/v1667547870/Customers/AlpacaML/getting-started-video-5_iucaey.mp4"
    type="video/mp4"
  />
</video>

<div className="flex justify-center">
  <img
    height="400"
    width="400"
    src="/images/getting-started-6.png"
    alt="Transfer"
  />
</div>

---

Congrats on making your first project with Alpaca! We hope you enjoyed, be sure
to write to us on Discord, or by email at
[help@alpacaml.io](mailto:help@alpacaml.io) if you ran into any problems along
the way.
